---
title: Experimentation inspired by BLOCKS
published_at: 2025-03-11
snippet: This is my third blog post
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

#   Rafaël Rozendaal's Blocks: What's under the hood?

## Attempt 1

<iframe id="blocks_1" src="https://editor.p5js.org/lizshw/full/uKWJ-QXJl"></iframe>

<script type="module">

    const iframe  = document.getElementById (`blocks_1`)
    iframe.width  = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
    iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42

</script>
This was my first attempt of a simplified version of BLOCKS by Rafael Rozendaal. I wanted to focus on the basic functionality of the artwork, getting two rectangles that would change size depending on each other and in reference to the canvas size. 

I used a boolean variable to control the animation's direction; whether the rectangles were growing or shrinking. I then had a if/else statement control the rectangles themselves. I realised that with the way the code is now, the rectanlges (or squares as they should be), are being drawn from the top left corner, but should be drawn from the center. "rectMode(CENTER)" changes where they are drawn from, but the code I have written relies on the square being from the top left corner.
</script>

## Attempt 2

<iframe id="vertical_grid" src="https://editor.p5js.org/lizshw/full/KVbXMIKHm"></iframe>

<script type="module">

    const iframe  = document.getElementById (`vertical_grid`)
    iframe.width  = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
    iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42

</script>
With this attempt, I started from the base template again and duplicated the code, changing the y positioning by half the size (35) each time. In theory this is a grid, but I think it would look better if the size ran diagonally rather than vertically. Obviously the code could be more efficiant, likely using another for loop that references i and size. 

</script>





